pages/am/3.x/user-guide/login/user-guide-login-identifier-first-login-flow.adoc, before:

= Identifier-first Login Flow
:page-sidebar: am_3_x_sidebar
:page-permalink: am/current/am_userguide_login_identifier_first_login_flow.html
:page-folder: am/user-guide
:page-layout: am

[label label-version]#New in version 3.12#

== Overview

Identifier-first login authentication enables the login flow to be split into two steps:

- The first step consists in a page containing a single form field where you can input your username

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-first-page-flow.png %}[alt=Identifier-first login flow first page, width=500,height=438]

- Regarding the input submitted, the user gets redirected to the login form and are asked to input your password
- If the username is an email, the user gets redirected to an external provider matching your domain based on a whitelist

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-second-page-flow.png %}[alt=Identifier-first login flow second page, width=500,height=438]


== Activate Identifier-first Login

To activate Identifier-first login Flow:

. link:{{ '/am/current/am_userguide_authentication.html' | relative_url }}[Log in to AM Console^].
. Go to *Settings > Login* or *Application > "Your app" > Settings > Login*.
. Switch on *Identifier-first login* and click *SAVE*.

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-settings.png %}[Identifier-first login flow Settings]

== Identity providers allowed domain list

External Identity providers now enable you to enter domain whitelists so that if the username submitted is an email and
its domain matches the whitelisted domain during the first step of the flow, the user gets redirected to the provider.

If you don't input any domain, the user will just get redirected to the second login page.

. Go to *Settings > Providers*.
. Create a new provider or Edit an existing one
. Enter the domains you wish to allow
. Complete the provider's form and click *SAVE*.

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-identity-provider-domain-whitelist.png %}[Identifier-first login flow provider Domain Whitelist]

Commit message:

docs: application identity provider selection rules

pages/am/3.x/user-guide/login/user-guide-login-identifier-first-login-flow.adoc, after:

= Identifier-first Login Flow
:page-sidebar: am_3_x_sidebar
:page-permalink: am/current/am_userguide_login_identifier_first_login_flow.html
:page-folder: am/user-guide
:page-layout: am

[label label-version]#New in version 3.12#

== Overview

Identifier-first login authentication enables the login flow to be split into two steps:

- The first step consists in a page containing a single form field where you can input your username

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-first-page-flow.png %}[alt=Identifier-first login flow first page, width=500,height=438]

- Regarding the input submitted, the user gets redirected to the login form and are asked to input your password
- If the username is an email, the user gets redirected to an external provider matching your domain based on a whitelist

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-second-page-flow.png %}[alt=Identifier-first login flow second page, width=500,height=438]


== Activate Identifier-first Login

To activate Identifier-first login Flow:

. link:{{ '/am/current/am_userguide_authentication.html' | relative_url }}[Log in to AM Console^].
. Go to *Settings > Login* or *Application > "Your app" > Settings > Login*.
. Switch on *Identifier-first login* and click *SAVE*.

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-settings.png %}[Identifier-first login flow Settings]

== Identity providers allowed domain list

External Identity providers now enable you to enter domain whitelists so that if the username submitted is an email and
its domain does not match the whitelisted domains after a login attempt, they won't be allowed to login.

If you don't input any domain however, everyone will be able to login.

. Go to *Settings > Providers*.
. Create a new provider or Edit an existing one
. Enter the domains you wish to allow
. Complete the provider's form and click *SAVE*.

image::{% link images/am/current/graviteeio-am-userguide-login-identifier-first-identity-provider-domain-whitelist.png %}[Identifier-first login flow provider Domain Whitelist]
